is up everybody and welcome to another
episode of after impact i am your host
tom bill you and I am here with agent
Smith mr. bill you what's up my man
going good la week
hello fide gangster late it has been a
crazy week I have been up till 1:00 a.m.
twice this week
dude I am up waking up at 1:00 a.m. this
is it has been madness it's like a
Freaky Friday inside out week it's
inside out week you were absolutely
correct awesome yes but I'm happy to be
here as we're diving in I just want to
quickly welcome everyone and I have a
question for you since this is after
impact I want to know have you watched
the episode with mast and Kip yes or no
drop it in the comments right now we
want to hear your thoughts how many
people have watched the episode or
listen to it on the podcast whatever you
prefer hopefully a lot of you so that
you have tons of questions to ask
because we want to dive into it here on
after impact nice and just to
acknowledge that you learn something new
and you've put it into immediate action
and I respect that about you
God has he done got to do it cool so
yeah this week we went to vid summit we
did and that was a lot of fun it was
amazing learned a lot amazing amazing
and I loved learning it was just a
reminder for me of my absolute obsession
with usable knowledge yeah it's crazy
yeah I love that to you and I think we
clicked on this on the same
presentations we're like this yes
definitely and the guy that you want to
bring in I think that could be amazing
yeah that's super excited but the other
thing I liked about VidCon was meeting
all there were so many creators sorry I
said VidCon vids summit rather yes you
know what I actually I had VidCon so in
my head when one of the speakers went up
I thought if I made that mistake oh god
I'd be so embarrassed slightly
competitive yeah event but it was so
entrepreneurial and just to see it was
just a such a clear reminder you had all
these creators and talked to a lot of
people who just oh I have my job and
then I started the food blog and I
started making videos and then
I quit my job and so writing that
full-time or yeah I created this channel
because I'm really passionate about this
hobby and seeing that there there are no
more barriers to entry and you can just
do whatever you want dude so my friend
and I Steve young god that would be
weird if he was watching
we used to film ourselves all the time
like my dad would bring home this
camcorder that he could borrow from his
office I don't even know why they let
people do that but anyway he could do
that and so whenever he brought at home
we would go film something when I think
like what that looks like today like we
would film ourselves going to the
grocery store and like we would do dumb
stuff as he he did the same he called
gnarly bytes which is like the earth
this is like back in 90 probably 91 92
and he would do these things he called
gnarly bytes where he'd be walking at
normal speed and then just fall on his
face and like the most like cataclysmic
way possible yeah and we would do that
in like the middle of a grocery store
and film it right
mmm now that's like a thing and I know
that like if we if YouTube existed like
we would have been like oh man we got to
try this but hearing some of these guys
talk they're so disciplined about
building their channel and it was like
this tremendous reminder that I had this
impulse to do fun and funny stuff I was
always the guy behind the camera let let
the record reflect and but I didn't have
the discipline to figure it out like
hearing this sharer brothers talk you
want to share but yeah okay it was so
interesting I don't want to derail too
far we need to dive in to mask it
because he's absolutely phenomenal but
us just to sum that all up that they
really have the discipline to learn and
so they had done their channel for like
four or five months and they were just
like we're not getting the traction we
need to step back research and figure
this out I thought man if I had had that
clarity when I was you know 20 yeah it
was just nuts super inspiring a lot of
knowledge so any creators out there
encourage you to check out vid so I'm
gonna check out Derral Eve's the yeah
the organizer of its summit and all of
his amazing contact lot to learn so
let's dive into the after impact episode
this is the show where we unpack the
impact of this week's episode with
Mastan Kip if you don't know who he is
he is a functional life coach a lover of
science and spirituality he is a speaker
an author and his book is called claim
your power really fascinating episode
very it was cool to see you guys dive in
because I could see there were a lot of
a lot of parallels and the way that you
think and some of the ideas expressed I
want to start off with the big one and
that was really the episode title as
well about bringing science and
spirituality together so I guess my
question for you is do you think that
advances in science will bring them
closer together or will it start to
explain some ideas that have been around
for thousands and thousands of years
Agent Smith I don't know so I had a very
weird experience this week which you and
I had a lot of fun talking about earlier
I went to church mm-hmm for the first
time in decades and I am not religious
like when I say I'm not religious I mean
I am aggressively not religious and
being there so the guy there's a
preacher I don't know a better word for
it he's a pastor or a preacher or
whatever you want to call him here in
Los Angeles I guess he lives in Seattle
he has a mega church so I'm told in
Seattle and I'm actually interested to
get this guy in the show which is how I
ended up there so I'm friends like I
never know where to classify those sort
of early relationships I have a
burgeoning relationship with his agent
really interesting guy named Dean
Schneider and he said you've got to come
see this guy his name is Judah and he
has this church called church home here
in LA and I was like oh man like going
to a church he's like no you need to
check this guy he's very special so I go
and he is a cross between a stand-up
comic and a legit like southern preacher
it was what he made me think of because
he's so energetic so good with the crowd
and just a
thoughtful guy about how do we make
spirituality religion all of it
accessible and so the whole time he's
talking about hey it doesn't matter like
whether you believe what I believe like
I just want you to feel at home here
which I thought was really interesting
but he's very much himself talks about
religion and so that part didn't
resonate with me but like the way that
he's trying to be inclusive the way that
he is so entertaining there's there's no
better word he's entertaining so whether
you agree with what he's saying or not
is totally irrelevant he is deeply
entertaining but seeing the way that
people responded to him seeing the way
that he feels believes and approaches
the world I thought dude this this is
like it there is a certain person and so
the whole time I'm sitting in the crowd
let me finish that's a me there's a
certain person who really really
experiences on a visceral level religion
and I mean all the trappings of religion
I mean as different from spirituality I
would say that I am spiritual he is
deeply religious and seeing that there
was so much energy and I thought this is
really fascinating and it is important
to remember that a I'm having a very
different experience than a lot of
people here in this church and there
they are moved in a very religious and
spiritual way which was really really
interesting I don't know that there's
ever a moment where there's enough
science in the world to bring the two
together they are fundamentally
different experiences and so I think
that there's been there's a an amazing
sense of like people who are deeply
spiritual can connect with people who
are deeply religious and I love that I
love anything that makes people feel
more connected to people who don't think
like they think and that was probably
the most beautiful thing that I took
away from that whole experience was Here
I am I'm not I'm not resonating in the
same way that other people in the
audience are but I'm resonating like I
found this guy really really interesting
and I loved his message of like
inclusion and wanting people to feel a
sense of home and I get that same vibe
with Mastan where it's like he can talk
science or he can talk religion or he
can talk spirituality or he can be
woowoo or he can be really grounded and
he has this way of like bringing
all together so to really put a fine
point on your question if you had asked
me that a week ago before I went to this
church service I would said yeah I think
they come together and then being there
I realized I think it I hope this is
actually faster this is me projecting
what I want to be true more than
necessarily what I've meditated on and
think is actually true I want to be true
that there's a coming that science
bridges the gap and brings people
together under a bigger umbrella and
that as we uncover more of these truths
which are measurable and verifiable that
people have to open their dogma which is
the thing that scares me but they have
to open their dogma to include some of
these like very hard to get around
truths so I hope that that's a
contribution that science makes I feel
like that's the angle that Mastan Kip is
coming from is that look I'm looking at
them both and I can't deny that I have
these very spiritual woowoo experiences
and he talked about that that me he had
a near-death experience when he was
young and I wanted to punch myself in
the mouth for not following up on that
part of the reason I didn't is I always
try to give him space to talk and then a
lot of times they'll go to like another
place and they end and then I want to
follow up on the thing that they ended
on but I'm very very sad that I didn't
ask him a follow-up question on that and
then he said one of his friends fathers
passed away right in front of him and he
said those like we're like quit he
didn't use the word quake but those were
like quake moments for him that that
have echoed from a spiritual perspective
throughout his life and so he has he's
hardcore science tisp errants and then
he's had these deeply spiritual moments
and his whole life is about sort of
rectifying or bringing those things
together and really understanding both
of them and so I do hope that that
science helps people develop a broader
viewpoint that allows them to be more
inclusive but that experience that I had
this past Wednesday made me think these
may not there's not a necessary meeting
of these because they're divergent
experiences much like whatever he went
through with his own near-death
experience and watching somebody else
past
that he just nothing else in his life
explains yeah I totally agree and what I
loved about Macedon is that he so he
knows that there are these two sort of
big things science and religion that are
real too big segments of the population
that means something to each and that
there are truths in each but then his
whole thing is like how do we take those
truths from each of those those segments
and bring them into something that's
practical at the individual level to
help you live your life better
like that's this whole thing with
functional life coaching and one example
of that which I thought he really had
just a great way of saying it was we
pursue external goals to hit an internal
emotional target I was like whoa yep
that's awesome so I want to get your
thoughts on that like truer words never
said it is that's exactly what I'm
driving at when I say the game that
you're playing isn't success it's not
money it's neuro chemistry hmmm you're
trying to create an emotional state in
yourself and that's it like that's the
game Nature has built in this
neurochemical cascade of all kinds I
mean there's an untold number of
different emotional states some of which
we read as pleasurable some of which we
read is deeply painful and that that's
at the end of the day like that's all
that matters and so now we could really
derail into like where does brain
augmentation go what's the role of
memories and for anybody else that's
deeply fascinated by movies like Total
Recall dude all that exists is this
moment but this moment is entirely
defined by your past even your
projections of the future are tied to
your past and there's a thought exercise
and I I don't know how to put words
around this but I've talked about this
before where if I'm really getting stuck
in an emotion or a fear or whatever I
will say to myself imagine that right
now right this second amid thought you
have just been inserted into the matrix
and everything that you think prior to
this very second is fake it's just a
memory that's been implanted in your
brain how would that change my behavior
because it would dramatically change my
behavior and the way in which it would
change my behavior is I would decide
what to believe from my past I would
just decide and I would say okay they're
all fake anyway so now which one serve
me and which ones don't
yeah and that is I get it's a thought
exercise I don't think that's actually
real I'm just saying like it's so
powerful to realize you can decide which
of those events in your past you're
going to allow to paint the color of
your present and your future so when he
when Mastan talks about like understand
that I see highly successful people all
the time and they're deeply miserable
that really that thing like when you set
that goal what you were trying to do is
create an internal state once you
understand that once you understand the
game is internal then at least you're
playing the right game and I think this
is why people get so confused with
success to his point about internal
targets you look at somebody that has
these successes you think you want
because you think that you will feel
about yourself the way that you feel
about them and you won't and that
they're totally unrelated yeah yeah
that's good you want to talk about
something I wish I could just give
people like a visceral understanding of
that so that they would and that doesn't
mean that they'll stop chasing money or
stop chasing success it just means that
they'll actually understand how to
correlate and how to create a causative
relationship between their emotions and
the things that they get from their
pursuits yeah it's super powerful I want
to dive into something that you just
said but before I do that I want to
again encourage the audience on YouTube
and Facebook live first thank you for
showing up and being part of this but
this is about you too we want you to be
in the conversation so please ask
questions hopefully they're related to
the episode or something that we're
talking about here
let's get involved in the conversation
and by the way I don't know that we've
ever said this we pretty
avoid taking questions in after impact
if it's not about the topics that we're
discussing it's true so for anybody
asking questions by the way they have
nothing to do this episode submit those
to the AMA that we do normally on Friday
we're a little bit out of order this
week because of everything this has just
been a super bizarre week as you
mentioned in the opening but yeah we
want to answer those questions just not
during an after impact yeah well we have
a question right here we can dive into
it's from is au monde tier Kip talked
about using the angsty emotions as a
signal to dive into yourself and figure
out what caused them that they are
symptoms of some sort of emotional
wounding he says I've got some stuff I
feel like I needed to dig into but I'm a
little scared of the damage I might find
how would you begin approaching
something like that that's really
interesting so yeah I'll answer with
what Mastan said in the episode which is
do what scares you until it doesn't
scare you anymore and fear is one of
those things I so agree with him on and
the way I've always thought of it is
fear highlights stakes it's high stakes
now because I'm someone that wants to
play in a world stage and I want to do
something big and have huge impact I
really use that as a compass which is
something that Mastan talks a lot about
in his book and a lot of his talks using
fear as a compass and by that he means
he doesn't use the word stakes but
basically that it's pointing to
something important it's pointing either
to the trauma that this person is
talking about or and I actually probably
in mastan's language that's all it's
pointing to like there's something that
you have uncleared is the word that he
uses yeah there's something uncleared in
your life that is is like the nail that
he talks about you stepped on the nail
you've hit yourself with you know
lidocaine or whatever he says to numb
the pain but you haven't actually
removed the nail and gone through the
healing process so that really is it -
it is important and to do that work you
just have to like go towards that you
have to rush towards whatever it is it's
scaring you whatever did because this
isn't how I experience
the world like whatever part of the
brain that like shuts off painful
experiences from the past like that
buries it or whatever I don't have that
so for me it's and I actually think this
has helped me so first of all I always
think that it's my fault and second it's
just hyper clear the stupid [__] that I
did that led to that so but looking at
that facing that and learning to have
compassion for yourself not judge
yourself not expect perfection that has
been just tremendously beneficial for me
emotionally to get past things that have
either happened to me or that I've done
or whatever yeah so being not knowing
what you're going to uncover I guess is
a little outside of my personal
experience but you're gonna have to do
that facing it recognizing that you're
in control recognizing that there was
that either let's say that they were
100% victimized because I know what a
lot of people really struggle with his
they were abused in some way physically
emotionally sexually whatever the abuse
was and so obviously it's not your fault
that you were victimized but that you've
let that person continue to victimize
you emotionally mentally like that's a
choice and so and that's awesome now you
recognize it okay cool I've been doing
that now I can do the work of getting
past that I think that's really really
really important so it's about the the
damage that he's talking about
identifying is essentially finding the
nail and pulling it out like that is
step one until you're willing to face
that until you're willing to do that and
just charge headlong into okay this is
what happened and this has been my
responsibility going forward so own that
find that only in as much and I see you
feel badly about it in that okay cool ah
yes I have failed to pull the nail out
but now that I'm aware of that I'm gonna
do that I think that's super critical
move towards the fear figure that out
understand that whatever you find even
if it is that you did something horrific
that it's not about staying in that
place beating yourself up it's about
recognizing it and moving past it and
recognizing that you can become anybody
you want so like even if you turn inward
and objectively the whole world would
say you're a [__]
dirtbag like you don't have to be a
dirtbag from that moment forward right
that is so freeing to me like whatever
it is that you look back and see you can
change your you can't change the past
like that's done it's gone so continuing
to deny that the past is what it is only
loses more time and then once you
identify if you're not happy with what
you see that you can make a change
that's awesome
I want to dive into this a little bit
more regarding emotions because I know
you've talked a lot about not letting
emotions sort of control
your your action or not letting emotions
control your life and you have worked
very hard you said when things used to
upset you in a work environment for
instance like dialing that back to where
it's just it's not even registering on
your face anymore so how do you both do
that which i think is super powerful but
also address the emotions like mass and
said like you need to pay attention to
these that is that is super powerful so
here's the process that I go through
which by the way so that thing you want
me to write I've struggled with excitin
really know what you needed now I know
it's protocols you need my protocols
like what are the processes so that's a
code word for me protocols remind me of
that better so here's the protocol not
that I wanted to you to write the
community wanted perfect so community
thank you very much it isn't that I use
mantras is that I have protocols yeah
behavioral protocols which will answer
your question so the behavioral protocol
that I go through is whatever like when
you're kicking some strong emotion up
that that is wiring like you have wired
yourself now to have that neurochemical
response to that situation and any time
that I have a neurochemical response
that isn't serving me so if I'm getting
wound up about something 99 times out of
a hundred that's not very effective now
there are times where it is effective
and you need to be pissed off and that's
the thing that's going to give you the
energy but it really just it's it's
pretty [__] rare so when I have
something that's kicking up this level
of aggression then I I'm gonna say okay
one right now I don't want to respond to
that I don't want it to cross my face
and I'm thinking about
to sing so when something's really
winding me up like part of what allows
me to de-escalate the emotion is this is
a chance to practice this is a chance to
practice de-escalating that emotion and
knowing that oh this is like I'm not
performing in the way that I want
emotionally right and I'll get to that
like how I ended up there and what I do
to back out of that in a second but so I
realize in that moment okay I haven't
yet done the work so that I'm actually I
don't feel this in this circumstance so
I'm feeling it right now that feeling is
very real but I don't want it to cross
my face because it's disadvantageous
from a relationship perspective from a
getting what I want perspective moving
forward so I can't like freak out nobody
responds well to that I'm gonna be
embarrassed by it later so let's just
not go through the process let's really
[__] chill use this moment to
practice like not letting the emotion
continue to escalate because that's how
it feels for me emotions like they
trigger often times really hard but then
if I give in they just get worse and
worse and worse and it's like more
momentum more anger more frustration so
I want to instantly through the protocol
of practice to remind myself I'm just
practicing and what I'm practicing is
de-escalating not letting it reach my
face not letting it be in my tone of
voice not letting it be in my posture
all of that so I'm literally part of my
mind that immediately becomes allocated
to that the physiology of what I'm going
through and doing exactly the reverse so
when something winds you up you want to
hold more attention you want to furrow
the brow you want to at least I'd you
I want to square myself to the person I
want to tilt my chin down I want to
furrow my brow I want to make that face
that I know [__] intimidates the [__]
out of people and so I then do the
opposite and I'd like relax my shoulders
I release the tension I put my neutral
like goofy face on like I'm trying to do
from a physiological perspective all the
things that I can't do I'll slow my
vocal patterns down because I find that
that feeds into my intensity and I don't
know if you've ever noticed this but if
we like right before we roll I talk way
slower than I talked once we go live and
that's a very conscious choice because
it revs up my mentality so in a moment
like that I know if I start talking fast
if I let myself do that that just feeds
that intensity and so I'll start slowing
myself down I'll start
lowering my voice slowing my cadence so
I'm trying to build into the physicality
because of that like that loop that
people can get in and I'll do the exact
opposite if I need intensity I'll furrow
my brow
I'll bring the tension into my body all
of those things and then that starts
they have me up it's just like laughing
out loud hard to be pissed off and laugh
out loud at the same time that's a
physiological thing that I've used to
great advantage okay so those are the
the things in that moment that I'm doing
to like practice to deescalate at some
point later in the day I'm gonna
ruminate on why is the wiring this way
like why am I in this state why does
that thing really wind me up and this is
something where for all my talk about
like I don't mind being alone and all of
that I'm so grateful for my wife because
she really really helps me process this
stuff and so I'll talk to her like [__]
I don't know why like this is where I'm
at I don't know why it's pissing me off
but let me like externalize this and cuz
I process verbally so let me like talk
through this and she gives awesome
feedback and if she notices a pattern
like she'll throw it out [__] yeah you
know what you're actually right oh my
god
like that is where this is coming from
but then just identifying it isn't
enough you have to really begin to
unwind it which that the escalation
followed by ruminating and talking about
is the on the unwire in process it's not
really even so much to unwire in your
wiring a new process so the I use that
the frustration or whatever as a trigger
and habit loop triggers are a big thing
for me
part of my protocol so the frustration
instead of being the thing that feeds a
reaction what it does is it feeds as a
trigger into a habit loop of relaxation
so that the the gunshot impulse that
instantaneous frustration literally
triggers the
Hey right like the nothing but chill and
me so when you can get into those you
begin to create a new a new wiring which
is that thing now begins to trigger a
chill effect just repetition yeah so and
that's slowly how you wire a new
response and then also if there's like
some lingering emotional thing like I
know when one thing that really wants me
up and my poor wife suffers the brunt of
this so anybody out there watching that
wants to build something incredible big
like and if you're looking at me as like
an example of oh man I just wish that I
could be like Tom like that would be
amazing and build something huge
understand I am in a constant state of
near panic I feel like I'm in a freefall
all the time and what I just have one
overriding belief that is so [__]
powerful that it always keeps me from
freaking out and allows me to move
forward and that is I believe to the
core of my being I can figure anything
out I may need to go talk to experts I
may have to read a lot of books it may
take an inordinate amount of time but I
can figure anything out so I don't place
the the judgement on myself that I have
to already know it so because of that I
know that I have to create all this
momentum that I have to keep moving
forward like that's a big thing and so
even though like part of my brain is
screaming like you don't know what the
[__] you're doing
I just know keep going give yourself the
time to learn put it out there you it is
astonishing when you tell enough people
what you're doing that they slowly like
start being able to help you it's
[__] crazy but you first have to be
the one to dream big and to say I'm
doing it and my wife in that I find this
is one of my like trigger things if she
like just wants clarification I take it
as she doesn't believe because I need
other people to like be with me because
I can't fight my own internal battle and
have to fight the external battle as
well I need someone somewhere has to
believe the [__] is gonna work and so
when my wife is like what what do you
mean but what about this I literally
have to remind myself she's actually
asking only because she doesn't know
like this isn't a sigh
she's defecting and doesn't believe
those familiar right so it with me a
hundred percent this is my process it's
like it's not that I don't believe it's
like but how like what is it because I
conscientious and yes and this is like
been a really important recent
realization of why I get frustrated so
going in and going it's because like I'm
already fighting my own insecurities
when other people are [__] I perceive
it as heaping doubt on me then it's like
okay fine keep all the [__] doubt you
want but I'm gonna fight right so then
it brings out the only way that I know
how to not succumb to I don't know what
I'm doing I'm afraid as anybody else is
I slip into the 20% now you're brick
[__] like great I have a mechanism to
deal with this I'm not gonna crumble
you're not gonna be able to make me slow
down or second-guess myself but the way
that I'm gonna battle it is with
aggression and so then it brings out
aggression and everybody else like the
[__] is going on because you don't mean
it from a doubting Thomas place you just
literally like I just want to understand
this but I'm like [__] ready uh-huh
you know like I come out swinging so
doing the work of like processing that
and finding that root cause is really
beneficial for me for sure because once
I know what's going on I can take
different paths
that's super key because you've talked
about emotions a lot and not letting
them get to you
and to sabotage the moment right but the
second part which is saving it until
later to them process it and this goes
into what Mastan talks about in the
episode which is there are three steps
to emotional fitness there's emotional
awareness which is just saying I have
emotions they're present I'm not going
to repress them emotional intelligence
which is figuring out what are those
emotions and how to identify them is it
fear anxiety anger or whatever and then
emotional fitness which is training
yourself on how to respond to each of
those things which we don't I don't want
to derail too much on those right now I
just wanted to make that connection
because we have a couple of questions I
don't want to dive into here from the
audience first off a couple shout outs
from Tammy from Moose Jaw Saskatchewan
Canada that's a real place real place
that's so please
and Jaw Saskatchewan that's amazing I'm
gonna need a t-shirt from Moose Jaw sees
what's up my ordered list that's
incredible we also have Shu Hass ba goth
from India I think these are all people
on YouTube and Rachel JC from Algeria
wow I love how international it's really
cool here's a question on Facebook from
Dan bro damn bro fitness what's up dude
Kip talks about doing things until
doesn't scare you anymore which is that
what you just mentioned what if fear is
holding you back so much you can't step
up how would you start digging into the
issue that's identity so literally even
as you were reading the words of the
question I was angry with myself like
you just can't ever not step up you you
can't like you can't allow that in
yourself man like you've got to face
that [__] panic you've got to punish
yourself relentlessly for those times
that you fail look I have failed more
than most but I punished myself to make
sure that I don't keep doing that and I
recognize that whatever failure that I
just had that I'm punishing myself for
it is not a permanent state I'm not
punishing myself so that I will stay
there and feel bad and diminish myself
I'm punishing myself for the exact
amount of punishment that it pushes me
forward so that I'm not okay with doing
that I'm not okay in those situations in
fact you witnessed a very minor example
of this so I you can't imagine how much
I hate like going into a restaurant and
being like hey man is it cool like if my
white because Lisa can't eat restaurant
food right now like we're doing the
whole thing and it makes me beyond
uncomfortable when somebody's like hey
I'm so sorry but we don't allow people
to eat food and outside food right yeah
and I was like literally to the point
where at least was like okay okay okay
like calm down calm down but I was like
dude what charge me whatever you need to
find the most expensive thing on the
menu but like that's not what I'm
feeling inside what I'm feeling inside
is oh man I don't want to bug this guy
I'm so sorry but the thing that's like
that I have punished myself for failing
my wife on so many times is like I let
that social discomfort stop
from getting my wife the most important
person in my life getting her which she
needs right so that that's but one of a
bazillion examples of where my in my
past I failed me I was not proud of the
way that I handled it
my wife had made something clear that
she wanted or needed and I didn't
deliver on it and those are things like
that sucks as a husband who prides
himself on like being there for his wife
protecting his wife and then you fail
your wife which I have done way too many
times to even enumerate but it drives my
behavior right so that I get better so
that now like even my wife in that
situation I don't think is thinking
about how uncomfortable I am she's just
going like [__] you're going so hard and
pushing so far now she's getting
uncomfortable cuz the level to which
like I wasn't gonna back off until I got
what I thought she wanted now I didn't
realize what she really wanted at that
moment was for me not to fuss which that
gets hard to like know exactly what
moment so you just hey as soon as she
said okay I backed off but it's like you
you literally Dan bro you have to train
yourself like you can't accept that
behavior you've got to push yourself and
force yourself to do things that make
you uncomfortable but it all comes from
identity to be the husband that I want
to be in moments like that I have to
[__] step up I have to drive all the
way leave no stone unturned like keep
pushing driving forward and yeah you
just you have to like but that comes
from shaping your identity and it takes
time yeah it's super interesting and
that's something that Mastan also talked
about which is finding the trigger point
that is going to be so inspiring and
intoxicating to you that will allow you
to overcome that fear and he gave the
example I think of someone he was
working with that was trying to get
through this emotional trauma she had
suffered in the past and when she
realized that that emotional trauma was
holding her back from going to the next
level to provide for her family which it
was the ultimate thing that she cared
about then she just immediately dove in
100% we're interesting I want to take a
moment to pause and remind everyone and
tell them about our contest that we have
going on I think is today the last day
today is the final day oh kids don't let
this moment pass you by
is a big contest guys we are giving away
a flight from anywhere in the world
to Los Angeles to hang out with Tom all
day and the rest of the team plus
accommodations so this is a big giveaway
and so will first tell them what they
have to do I will at first I wanted to
have the prize but here's what you got
to do all this is easy all you have to
do is reach out to your friends and
family who should are to be watching and
subscribing to impact theory but if they
aren't reach out to them and say hey
there's the show it's awesome you got to
check it out please go and subscribe on
YouTube on YouTube we're gonna drop a
link in the comments there's a video
that we created which is Tom welcoming
your friends and family to the impact
Theory community send them that send
them the link have them subscribe and
then the last thing they have to do in
order to know that you entered so that
we can watch see your entry is to drop
your name or your handle or something
into the comments of YouTube correct and
the more people that do that the more
entries your name has into the Hat
essentially that will be drawing out of
so if you get one person to do it you
have one chance to win if you get a
hundred people to do it you have a
hundred chances to win so the more
people you get to do it the better and
the crazy thing is that we set a goal to
hit a hundred and fifteen thousand now
we set the goal to hit it by October
first which we failed miserably on two
weeks late but this contest was what was
meant to drive us there you had the
foresight to make the contest go for
three weeks
and it's crazy the contest ends today we
set this goal three weeks or the date
three weeks ago we are gonna hit it to
the [__] day yeah that is so weird it
makes me wish that we had like set a
more aggressive goal or something
because it's like how is that possible
yeah to the day it's madness I know I
wish we matter this contest earlier but
here we are move past the failure it's
learning them and let's go so anyway
today is the last day you have until
midnight get your entries in share this
content please it would help us
immensely we're trying to grow our
YouTube channel alright let's go back to
some of your questions and comments
book live here's a question from Johan
Lucena how can you put in a practical
way what you learned from Kipp please
choose your favorite lesson and put it
in practicality instead instead of only
words so just get super practical so
yeah the honest answer is what we
already talked about which is take the
nail out of your foot like that is the
researching him that was the most
powerful thing that he talked about and
is really the foundation of his entire
book and by the way his book is gonna do
a better job of making this practical
than anything that I could do is to
check that out but it goes like this so
identify the wound like what is causing
the behavior go fix that and a lot of
times it's gonna be emotional work of
removing your own stigmatization of the
trauma which is usually the nail right
it's your obsession you're beating
yourself up or whatever it is whatever
you're doing consistently about that
thing and you have to acknowledge it let
it go
forgive yourself show self compassion
forgive like if it was done to you
forgive that person move past it like
you've got to close the chapter on that
by removing the the nail it's a it's
just a perfect example of metaphor so
I'll stick with that you got to remove
the nail and then you've got to go
through the healing process so whether
that's engaging a therapist whether
that's using something like mass and
Kip's book which is full of like all
these questions and answers and actions
and all of that to go through that
emotional healing process that is the
key but you have to get rid of the thing
that continues to occupy your thoughts
nice well I'm gonna talk I want to
switch directions here and talk about
the hero's journey so it's super
important to mastan's teachings and the
way he thinks why like how does it fit
into if you could just help explain for
the audience how does it fit into
everything that he's doing around like
improving yourself and well so this is
really interesting in and that is the
thing probably that I
I responded to most with Mastan is so
impact Theory is about the the hero's
journeys ability to create a motion
around the change that every human has
to go through to take control of their
own life and become capable of something
great I call it getting out of the
matrix right in Joseph Campbell's
language investing Kipps language it's
going on the hero's journey and so he
the hero's journey is broken into four
parts and Masson Kipps book is broken in
the same four parts I don't remember
them by name but in a hero with a
thousand faces he talks about that
Joseph Campbell talks about that and
going on that journey for yourself to
really learn from others so there's the
mentor always think of Star Wars the
mentor teaches you something you have to
go on some journey of discovery you you
know go into the land of the unknown you
go through turmoil and difficulty and
then you ultimately like absorb the
lessons that the master was trying to
teach you that moment where Luke turns
off his radar device to take the shot on
the Death Star and then the mentor
disappears and you come back because
you've learned what you need to learn
you've discovered what you need to
discover and then you come back to the
group and you teach so that is the
journey every human being goes on or
should go on in fact the vast majority
people don't go on that journey but
that's a journey of self-discovery of
learning how to take control of your own
life learning how to execute at the
highest level and then bringing what
you've learned to other people right so
that is the the journey the hero's
journey now what is utterly fascinating
that is such the physics of the human
experience the baseline there's nothing
lower than that that that's why it's
called the hero with a thousand faces it
is across cultures long before they were
communicating and interconnected it's
the same story that they all told
totally universal they were just telling
that story over and over and over
because that's how people take control
of their own life and that's why Joseph
Campbell lamented stunted adolescence
where there's no ritual there's nothing
that
like a threshold that you cross and go
from being a child being an adult and he
said so you get this where people are
perpetually in that zone where they
never begin that journey they never go
out into the metaphorical woods and have
to discover themselves and have to go
through something [__] hard and by
the way that's one of the coolest saying
things about the Harry Potter mythology
is how come people died right so it like
gets dramatic and big and so they go
through like these real trials have real
consequences and one of the stories that
I want to tell at impact theory and I
honestly can't remember if this is real
or if if I made this [__] up or if I
made it loosely off of something that
was real but I have this vague memory
being a kid growing up in the Pacific
Northwest where like Native Americans
they're like a real thing that there
were these Native kids that got arrested
for doing something stupid and they were
like 14 if I remember right and instead
of going to juvenile hall the tribe said
let us do our own tribal form of
punishment and we're literally gonna put
them in the woods for a year with no
contact if I remember right they took
them to [__] Alaska and drop them off
in the will and I thought those
[__] could get eaten by a bear
but it was like yes that's the point and
I again I don't know if that's real if I
dreamed it if it was like something sort
of like that and I expand I don't know I
want to tell that story though that's
gonna be one of the comics movies TV
shows or whatever the we Dukes that is
so powerful to me did have you read the
long walk to freedom no by Nelson
Mandela mmm-hmm oh God read it you will
love it
it's insanity but by the way he was he
went through a circumcision ritual to go
from boyhood to manhood they straight
with no anesthetic in front of the
entire tribe homie they sit you down
bucket us naked well everyone's watching
they grab your foreskin and with a sharp
[__] knife they just cut it off and
you have to yell out like this warriors
cry to show that like you're not daunted
by the pain that's gnarly
dude it made me go yeah so
we got a little soft somewhere along the
way that was amazing so anyway that
guy's cool story is phenomenal the
hero's journey is so fundamental and
foundational to claiming your own power
and becoming what you want to become so
sadly I didn't get a circumcision ritual
either but you eventually in some way
shape or form in your life have to go
into the woods literally or
metaphorically and like do some hard
[__] come out the other side you just
have to it's the only way that you get
mentally tough yeah which by the way is
why I'm not a parent cuz I don't know
that I could put my kids through that
like everyone else I would want to
mollycoddle them and make their life
easy like it's such an instinct mm-hmm
so it's super interesting I want to come
back to you another question I have
about the hero's journey and mastan's
idea of movies but I want to get into
the questions from the audience here
because we have a couple corinne davis
says what do you think about functional
life coaching do you think you can do
some of that yourself without a coach
sure of course
I've never had a coach and his ideas
really really resonate with me so in a I
suppose a super clumsy way I've gone on
my own functional life coaching journey
what I like about his notion of
functional life coaching is it is a
direct reference to functional medicine
which is to identify the underlying
cause of a symptom
so our healthcare system has become all
about treating the symptom which is
amazing because when you have bacterial
infections like that's a pretty
phenomenal way to treat everything like
it is hyper acute to go in and say this
infection is due to this bacteria this
medication will kill it but that then
translates to an over focusing on just
the symptoms and trying to create
medicine that addresses that symptom so
the example that he gives in the episode
is a statin to lower your cholesterol
right where excuse me that's not what's
creating that problem you're not
addressing it like you're just trying to
medically push down the cholesterol
level rather than addressing the
underlying cause and so I started
learning about functional medicine
trying to figure out Lisa's problem and
just seeing like how when you look
the body as a superorganism that has all
these interconnected parts and pieces
and like quite frankly competing systems
right that you've got bacteria living
inside of you that are competing for
resources you have bacteria fighting
other bacteria competing for resources
you have viruses fighting against
bacteria bacteria fighting against
viruses like this is all the literal
reality of being a human and so until
you understand everything as a whole
like you're just you're never going to
deal with the real issues so his notion
of you have to think of your mental
space in that same way what are the past
traumas what are your notions about
success like all of that stuff like it's
all coming together to create the way
that you're experiencing your life and
unless you identify all of that and he
really puts it into the context of
trauma and healing past those things
clearing them out as he calls it it's a
really smart way to look at it to really
look at your mentality as a whole that
encompasses not only the things that I
just mentioned but also neuro chemistry
neuroanatomy like being realistic about
what he calls the meatsuit I think
that's super smart yeah I have a
question for you um do you like if you
could go back and instead of you know
clumsily finding your way to the place
that you are today in regard to your
mindset if you could go back and just
like work with someone like Mastan kip
to shortcut it would you it's a great
question man and here's I don't know if
I'm a fool or a genius the truth is I
probably wouldn't and I say that because
yesterday when I was downstairs so we're
about to reveal the set we got a new set
it's [__] amazing super excited about
it but there's only four remotes and
there's like eight lights and I'm trying
to turn them off and it would like turn
one off and one on the same button and
Lisa was like oh I think she sent us the
instructions you just need to read that
and I was like no no no I'll be able to
figured it out and so I'm like click
like an on-off on-off
what the [__] and lisas literally
watching me with amusement like why
won't you just read the directions like
you have the directions and the truth is
I wasn't convinced that what she'd sent
did anything more than explain that we
have remotes to turn off the lights so
it's the doubt of whether or not the
answer is really there right so there's
always like that slight resistance and
then there's the the power of once you
figure it out it is such a painful and
frustrating process that it burns the
concepts into your mind so that like I'm
so grateful for the deep emotional pain
that I went through that have made these
lessons so like visceral and concrete
and ever-present in my mind so but at
the same time like I'm a guy that I
needed College and that's gonna seem
super random what I mean by that is I
needed the structure of college to begin
my journey of gaining discipline and all
that so I think that someone like Masson
is very very powerful and I think that
there are people that will they will
benefit so much from working with
someone that can give them the structure
that can help them along the journey and
the truth is I had a lot of mentors I
just didn't have anybody like that clear
so it is when I say that I wouldn't it's
only me reflecting on how powerful it
was to fumble through everything and
just my natural inclinations to want to
like figure it out rather than read the
instruction manual I'm conflicted in my
own answer though because I read so much
so I'm giving you the gut truth of my
answer but it doesn't even make sense to
me and I think this is why my own wife
gets frustrated because she's like what
you're doing right now it makes
absolutely no sense so in part it might
be like what's your learning style I
think is is work because for me I
noticed that when I try new things I
want to I just want to go out and try it
like new like a sport or a game or
something I just want to go out and try
it and figure it out and then I might
read some stuff later to kind of get the
actual
knowledge but my wife Nicole she wants
to be in a class like she wants a
teacher she wants him show show her
exactly the things so that she can learn
exactly the moves and then just practice
and you met her and for me it was always
like just go out and do it you know like
surfing just go out and do it like I'll
show you and she's like no I need to be
in a structured class of someone so that
is a very good point yeah a couple more
questions here this one's from
hadiyyah-lah v massive spoke about
acknowledging when you feel emotional
hardship how does that go with you get
more of what you focus on acknowledging
emotional hardship I don't remember
specifically mastan's context around
that do you I think it just relates back
to I think what hadiya's is referencing
is just that you need to really dig
through the layers of the emotional
trauma in order to clear them so you
have to actually put in the work oh okay
that makes a lot of sense then so yeah
so now you're focusing on it right
you're focusing on the trauma and write
that and so now I want to make a really
clear distinction when you are going in
and doing the hard work the thing that
you're really focusing on is this is
going to be beneficial this is going to
work I'm going to get an outcome from
this if that's the thing that like you
obsessively return to as you like we had
the earlier question I think from Dan
bro and he's talking about like I'm worn
out with somebody else anyway doesn't
matter hey you're going deep you're
worried about the damage and danger or
whatever that you're going to encounter
as you do that that isn't the thing
you're gonna focus on you certainly
shouldn't be focusing on like oh my god
I'm worried about what I'm gonna find
I'm worried I'm worried I'm worried
right you want to go into it saying over
and over and over like this is going to
yield a positive result like this is
going to work and I need to be open and
I need to be willing to discover so when
I say you get what you focus on I'm
talking about that that framework thing
not that you're you're going to have to
spend time and attention on the trauma
and I get all and it won't be fun by the
way but if you believe that hey this is
really gonna add up to something that's
what I'm talking about when I say you
get me focused on if you're like it's
gonna be [__] miserable and I'm so
scared what I'm gonna learn that becomes
your focus and now as you go deeper into
that and remember
you can be like this is why I didn't
want to do it like I remember I heard
this story one time about this guy
he had like a wildly swollen lymph node
in like his underarm or something and
that's like really [__] dangerous and
if you ever find that you should
immediately go to the doctor and he
didn't want to go didn't want to go
didn't want to go and his friends
finally pressured him and he went to the
doctor and the doctor was like whoa this
could really be serious right it could
be cancer of the lymph nodes or whatever
and he was like we need to run some
tests and and come back in a week or
whatever and I'll let you know and so
the guy comes back and goes I knew I
shouldn't have gone dude if you don't go
like the problem doesn't go away because
you're blind to it like it only gets
worse than one day you're dead way
better to address it early but it does
mean that you have to face something so
that that comes down to like what's your
mentality if you get that diagnosis of
hey this really could be serious and you
go I knew I shouldn't have gone like
that's your focus that's your frame of
reference it's all negative it's all bad
if on the other hand you go
hey finding it early like now we can
address it I'm gonna [__] fight I'm
gonna come through on the other side
that's your focus right it is the exact
same experience but they have
dramatically different frames of
reference based on what you focus on
yeah I love that and Madsen talks a lot
in the episode about that
decision-making process how are you
going to apply meaning to that event -
yes
empowering experience or one that's
disempowering going back to the hero's
journey and the idea of mastin
references superhero films and he says
his belief is that we're outsourcing our
hero's journey to those films I think
sort of it maybe as a form of escapism
but you know that's it runs a little
contrary to what we're trying to do here
at impact theory so how do we I guess as
a business avoid that passive experience
of just watching and not internalizing
the lessons and then applying them to
your life you don't tell me more so this
is a truth of what we're about to go
through
we are a filter and our job is to find
people who think like we think and our
job is to influence culture over
generations our job is not at any one
individual level to say you're going to
convert you're gonna think like we think
right like that just is not going to
work
I wish it would and there was a time in
my life where I actually said out loud
that there was no one that was beyond
like really changing their mindset like
with enough energy you can change
anyone's much I really believed that and
I believed it to the core of my being
and some of it was the arrogance of
belief in myself and some of it was just
I changed so dramatically why can't
anybody change and then I just really
began to accept that is a losing
proposition
it certainly doesn't scale so even if
it's true on a single individual person
level the the lengths to which you may
have to go to help that person when they
don't want your help is crazy and then
reading Geoffrey Canada and him saying I
gave up on adults and I just it was it
became all about finding women who were
either pregnant or about to become
pregnant and focus them on learning what
helps their children succeed which his
hypothesis was the number of positive
words they hear before the age of five
so it was like wow that's heartbreaking
and terrifying so I look at it as this
is a multi-generational thing if if we
succeed in the way that I want to
succeed it is because we will influence
culture on such a subtle level that it
is just baked into the culture that you
get when you focus on it's baked into
the culture that you can do anything you
set your mind to and I mean this stuff
is real so and when I say that I mean
cultural beliefs they vary from culture
to culture people talk about America
being the land of opportunity largely
because of the way that we look at
failure and when you hear that it's like
in other countries like an
entrepreneurial failure is a scarlet
letter an entrepreneurial failure by the
way may come with massive financial
problems where you are the same as your
company so when you fail all that debt
is just on you personally which makes
people really reticent to start a
company so not only do we have
legislation in this company but we also
have just like cultural beliefs about
hey fail fast fail forward like
that stuff so it's like you can
definitively influence culture by
switching their beliefs now part of this
comes from who do we celebrate right we
celebrate here in the US Elon Musk
Richard Branson Steve Jobs right people
that had tremendous failures but they've
also had massive successes and they're
the ones feeding into like hey this is
how we should think we all look at them
ago oh my god they're amazing and so we
adopt their thinking but that's all
within certain niches of people when
it's like expressible but I think that
it's deeply ingrained just in the
culture as a whole so I think that we
can influence that if we stay at this
long enough
people often credit like this this
really when I read this I was like oh my
god this is actually gonna [__] work
when I was reading the Disney biography
and they talk about how Disney is
credited partly with pulling the country
out of the Great Depression with the
Three Little Pigs because they wrote
this song for the Three Little Pigs
which was like imagine for a second the
theme song of the Three Little Pigs
being like a number one billboard song
for whatever three months it was that
big and people were whistling it and the
big bad wolf became the economy and
that's how everyone knew that's what
they were talking about so who's afraid
of the big bad wolf became who's afraid
of the bad economy right and so that
whole thing is credited with helping
people mentally get out of the Great
Depression and get out of that like oh
my god like what was me like this is all
terrible and it's just all crumbling
down around us and he gave people a way
to like get out so very very interesting
and so when Mastan talks about like I
think that a lot of people are
outsourcing their own hero's journey to
that I think people will and I think a
lot of people are gonna watch our
content and it will not help them in any
way shape or form
and I'm just not worried about that what
I'm worried about are the people out
there right now where this resonates the
people out there right now where we're
gonna give them the lexicon the stories
the iconography the characters that not
only can they internalize themselves but
that they could pass on to their kids
and by the way I don't remember their
name but there were just recently like
two days ago somebody posted an
Instagram
photo with the to Star Wars mugs and a
relationship theory on the TV in the
background and I was like oh my god this
bit in one image they've summed up
everything that we're trying to do so
first of all obviously these are because
they had like a stormtrooper painting on
the wall as well like they're clearly of
that world of media they were watching
relationship they're not even like main
app impact Theory and shot to memory
Eve gagney there we go Marie Eve Cagney
thank you so much and that was like that
is exactly the kind of thing that I'm
talking about where the Star Wars
reinforces through self signaling this
ideology right so they're viewing
themselves as Princess Leia and Han Solo
those are the the two mugs that they had
and when you steep yourself in that
mythology and what those characters
stand for and you know I mean Han like
you think he abandons the Rebel Alliance
but he comes back like right when he's
needed and like does what's right and
you know Princess Leia who's like the
you know the freedom fighter it's like
all of that is present in those [__]
mugs and so that's how you really like
get these ideas out into the culture but
obviously not everyone is gonna go
beyond the entertainment now that's fine
definitely cool we are out of time I
just want to remind everyone today is
the last day for the refer-a-friend
contest all you have to do is send
people to the link the YouTube video
that we dropped in the comments get them
to subscribe and then have them drop
your name in the comments and you could
win a trip to Los Angeles from anywhere
in the world this is international do
you hang out with Tom for the day get
your questions answered hang out with
the team talk to us and yeah we want to
we're gonna have you here so indeed
alright guys thank you so much for
joining us for this episode these are
always a lot of fun go refer a friend
and if you haven't already yourself be
sure to subscribe and until next time my
friends be legendary
take care
[Music]
[Applause]